API-5804: auto access rules (#607)
livechat/livechat-public-docs: content/management/configuration-api/v3.2/index.mdx

All configurations set by this API will have action in system after max 2 minutes. This delay will be removed in the future.

# Auto access

**Auto access** allows you to assign groups to a thread that will be created when a customer starts a chat. Those groups are
assigned based on the conditions defined to match the customer's tracking URL and geolocation. Every time a customer calls

> **Login** or **Update Customer Page**, our backend checks if the tracking URL and geolocation match the pre-defined conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**Login**](/messaging/customer-chat-api/v3.2/rtm-reference/#login) or [**Update Customer Page**](/messaging/customer-chat-api/v3.2/rtm-reference/#update-customer-page), our backend checks if the tracking URL and geolocation match the pre-defined conditions.
```

Given there's a match, the groups are assigned to a thread, but not until a chat starts and the thread is actually created.

> If a customer starts a chat via **Start Chat** or **Activate Chat** with the `chat.access` parameter, `chat.access` overrides the auto access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a customer starts a chat via [**Start Chat**](/messaging/customer-chat-api/v3.2/rtm-reference/#start-chat) or [**Activate Chat**](/messaging/customer-chat-api/v3.2/rtm-reference/#activate-chat) with the `chat.access` parameter, `chat.access` overrides the auto access
```

assigned to the thread.

## Methods

<Section>

<Text>

> ### Add auto access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add Auto Access
```

| ----------- | -------- | --------- | ----- |
| `country`   | No | `string` | "United States |
| `country_code` | No | `string` | "US" |
| `region` | No | `string` | "California" |
| `city` | No | `string` | "Mountain View" |

</Text>

<Code>

<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>

```shell
curl -X POST \
  https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/add_auto_access \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
        "description": "Chats on livechat.com from United States",
        "access": {
          "groups": [ 1 ]
        },
        "conditions": {
          "customer_domain": {
            "values": [
              {
                "value": "livechat.com",
                "exact_match": true
              }
            ]
          },
          "customer_geolocation": {
            "values": [
              {
                "country": "United States",
                "country_code": "US"
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }'
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
  "id": "pqi8oasdjahuakndw9nsad9na"
}
```

</CodeResponse>

</Code>

</Section>

<Section>

<Text>

> ### Get auto access config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### List Auto Accesses
```

Reviewer: + a note in Changelog:

There are new methods for managing auto access: [**Add Auto Access**](/management/configuration-api/v3.2/#add-auto-access),  [**List Auto Accesses**](/management/configuration-api/v3.2/#list-auto-accesses), and [**Delete Auto Access**](/management/configuration-api/v3.2/#delete-auto-access).

| Method URL     | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/list_auto_accesses`           |
| Required scopes| `access_rules:ro`                                                                    |

</Text>

<Code>

<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>

```shell
curl -X POST \
  https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/list_auto_accesses \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{}'
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
  [
    {
      "id": "1faad6f5f1d6e8fdf27e8af9839783b7",
      "description": "Chats on livechat.com from United States",
      "access": {
        "groups": [
          0
        ]
      },
      "conditions": {
        "customer_geolocation": {
          "values": [
            {
              "country": "United States",
              "country_code": "US"
            }
          ]
        },
        "customer_url": {
          "values": [
            {
              "value": "livechatinc.com",
              "exact_match": false
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

</CodeResponse>

</Code>

</Section>

<Section>

<Text>

> ### Delete auto access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Delete Auto Access
```

All configurations set by this API will have action in system after max 2 minutes. This delay will be removed in the future.

# Auto access

**Auto access** allows you to assign groups to a thread that will be created when a customer starts a chat. Those groups are
assigned based on the conditions defined to match the customer's geolocation and the page URL the customer is currently visiting.
Every time a customer calls [**Login**](/messaging/customer-chat-api/v3.2/rtm-reference/#login) or
[**Update Customer Page**](/messaging/customer-chat-api/v3.2/rtm-reference/#update-customer-page), our backend checks if

> the tracking URL and geolocation match the pre-defined conditions. Given there's a match, the groups are assigned to a thread,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the page URL and geolocation match the pre-defined conditions. Given there's a match, the groups are assigned to a thread,
```

All configurations set by this API will have action in system after max 2 minutes. This delay will be removed in the future.

# Auto access

**Auto access** allows you to assign groups to a thread that will be created when a customer starts a chat. Those groups are

> assigned based on the conditions defined to match the customer's tracking URL and geolocation. Every time a customer calls

Reviewer 2: `tracking URL` sounds difficult, maybe something like the current customer's page URL?

Author: I don't know.  @ale-kacperczyk , wdyt?

Reviewer: Hm, it may sound a bit enigmatic. 
On the other hand, `current customer's page URL` sounds a bit as if the customer had his/her own website.
I suggest "...to match the customer's geolocation and the page URL the customer is currently visiting. Every time... "

          },
          "customer_geolocation": {
            "values": [
              {
                "country": "United States",
                "country_code": "US"
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }'
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
  "id": "pqi8oasdjahuakndw9nsad9na"
}
```

</CodeResponse>

</Code>

</Section>

<Section>

<Text>

### List Auto Accesses

Returns all existing `auto access` data structures.

#### Specifics

|                |                                                                                      |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Method URL     | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/list_auto_accesses`           |
| Required scopes| `access_rules:ro`                                                                    |

</Text>

<Code>

<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>

```shell
curl -X POST \
  https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/list_auto_accesses \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{}'
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse>

```json

> {

Reviewer 2: this JSON is incorrect

</Section>

# Auto access rules

> Auto access rules allow to assign groups to customer session according to their tracking url and geolocation.  Those rules are

Reviewer: **Auto access** allows you to assign groups to a thread that will be created when a customer starts a chat. Those groups are assigned based on the conditions defined to match the customer's tracking URL and geolocation.  Every time a customer calls **Login** or **Update Customer Page**, our backend checks if the tracking URL and geolocation match the pre-defined conditions. Given there's a match, the groups are assigned to a thread, but not until a chat starts and the thread is actually created. 

If a customer starts a chat via **Start Chat** or **Activate Chat** with the `chat.access` parameter, `chat.access` overrides the auto access assigned to the thread.

Reviewer: This is my suggestion. I know the desc is not perfect, so feel free to comment. Together with @bkubiak we decided to refer to a thread's access rather than the access of a customer/customer session.

checked on **Login** and **Update Customer Page** and resulting groups stored in customer session.  When that session starts chat with **Start Chat**
or **Activate Chat** without `chat.access` stored session groups are used as new thread's access.

## Methods

<Section>

<Text>

> ### Add auto access rules

Reviewer: Creates an `auto access` data structure, which is a set of conditions for the tracking URL and geolocation of a customer.

#### Specifics

|                |                                                                               |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Method URL     | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/add_auto_access_rules` |
| Required scopes| `access_rules:rw`                                                             |

| Parameter       | Required     | Data type | Notes                         |
| --------------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------------------- |

> | `access`        | Yes          | `object`  | Destination access            |

Reviewer 3: not sure if `destination access` says clearly enough `who will have the access`

Author: I guess it should be clear from the description on top, where it was decided to not mention customer access at all and concentrate on created thread if needed.

| `access.groups` | Yes          | `[]int`   | Destination groups            |
| `rules`__**__   | Yes          | `object`  | Rules to check                |
| `rules.customer_url` | No      | `object`  | Rule that matches on `customer_page.url` from **Login** or `url` from **Update Customer Page** |
| `rules.customer_domain` | No   | `object`  | Rule that matches on domain of the url above |
| `rules.customer_*.values` | No | `[]match_object`_*_ | Positive match, may not be used together with `exclude_values` |
| `rules.customer_*.exclude_values` | No | `[]match_object` | Negative match |
| `rules.customer_domain` | No   | `object`  | Rule that matches on customer geolocation |

> | `rules.customer_domain.values` | Yes | `[]geolocation_object`__**__ | array of objects with optional values, at least one must be set; matches when at least one subrule matches |

Reviewer 3: not `customer_domain` surely?

> | `rules.customer_domain.values` | Yes | `[]geolocation_object`__**__ | array of objects with optional values, at least one must be set; matches when at least one subrule matches |

Reviewer 3: optionality of `geolocation` fields should be described below where the structure is presented

> | `description`   | No           | `string`  | Auto chat scopes description  |

Reviewer 3: chat scopes?

__*__ `<match_object>` structure:

| Parameter   | Required | Data type | Notes |
| ----------- | -------- | --------- | ----- |
| `value`     | Yes      | `string`  | value to match |

> | `exact_match` | No     | `bool`    | if exact match, if set to `false` a `match_object.value` will be matched as substring of customer url or domain |

Reviewer 3: ifi fifi :trollface:

> __**__ `geolocation_object` structure:

Reviewer 3: we need to state here that we do NOT check if the combination of elements provided by the user makes sense
we'll accept
```json
{
    "country": "United States",
    "country_code": "UK",
    "region": "Hokkaido",
    "city": "Moscow"
}
```
even though it will probably match nothing

| Parameter   | Required | Data type | Example |
| ----------- | -------- | --------- | ----- |
| `country`   | No | `string` | "United States |
| `country_code` | No | `string` | "US" |
| `region` | No | `string` | "California" |
| `city` | No | `string` | "Mountain View" |

</Text>

<Code>

<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>

```shell
curl -X POST \
  https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/add_auto_access_rules \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \

>   -d '{

Reviewer 3: technical issue: remove indentation in these lines, so the opening and closing brackets are aligned

      "description": "Chats on livechat.com from United States",
      "access": {
        "groups": [1]
      },
      "rules": {
        "customer_domain": {
          "values": [{
            "value": "livechat.com",
            "exact_match": true
          }]
        },
        "customer_geolocation": {
          "values": [
            {
              "country": "United States",
              "country_code": "US"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }'
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
  "auto_access_rules_id": "pqi8oasdjahuakndw9nsad9na"
}
```

</CodeResponse>

</Code>

</Section>

<Section>

<Text>

> ### Get auto access rules config

Reviewer: Returns all existing `auto access` data structures.

Reviewer 4: List auto accesses

#### Specifics

|                |                                                                                      |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Method URL     | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/get_auto_access_rules_config` |
| Required scopes| `access_rules:ro`                                                                    |

</Text>

<Code>

<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>

```shell
curl -X POST \
  https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/get_auto_access_rules_config \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{}'
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse>

```json
{

>      [

Reviewer 3: indent consistently with spaces, with 2-space step

        {
            "id": "1faad6f5f1d6e8fdf27e8af9839783b7",
            "description": "Chats on livechat.com from United States",
            "access": {
                "groups": [
                    0
                ]
            },
            "rules": {
                "customer_geolocation": {
                  "values": [
                    {
                      "country": "United States",
                      "country_code": "US"
                    }
                  ]
                },
                "customer_url": {
                    "values": [
                        {
                            "value": "livechatinc.com",
                            "exact_match": false
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

</CodeResponse>

</Code>

</Section>

<Section>

<Text>

> ### Remove auto access rules

Reviewer: Removes an existing `auto access` data structure specified by its ID.

#### Specifics

|                |                                                                                  |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Method URL     | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/remove_auto_access_rules` |
| Required scopes| `access_rules:rw`                                                                |

| Parameter              | Required     | Data type | Notes                         |
| ---------------------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------------------- |
| `auto_access_rules_id` | Yes          | `string`  | auto access rules ID          |

</Text>

<Code>

<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>

```shell
curl -X POST \
  https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/remove_auto_access_rules \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "auto_access_rules_id": "pqi8oasdjahuakndw9nsad9na"
  }'
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse>

> ```json

Reviewer 3: just no-response note?

</Section>

> # Auto access

Reviewer: I'd also move this whole section above Bot Agents, so that it's sorted alphabetically

Given there's a match, the groups are assigned to a thread, but not until a chat starts and the thread is actually created.

If a customer starts a chat via **Start Chat** or **Activate Chat** with the `chat.access` parameter, `chat.access` overrides the auto access
assigned to the thread.

## Methods

<Section>

<Text>

### Add auto access

Creates an `auto access` data structure, which is a set of conditions for the tracking URL and geolocation of a customer.

#### Specifics

|                |                                                                               |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Method URL     | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/add_auto_access`       |
| Required scopes| `access_rules:rw`                                                             |

| Parameter       | Required     | Data type | Notes                         |
| --------------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------------------- |
| `access`        | Yes          | `object`  | Destination access            |
| `access.groups` | Yes          | `[]int`   | Destination groups            |

> | `conditions`__**__   | Yes          | `object`  | Rules to check                |

Reviewer: Since the naming changed `rule` -> `condition`, I think we should also replace "rules" with "conditions" in the parameter descriptions

| `conditions.customer_url` | No      | `object`  | Rule that matches on `customer_page.url` from **Login** or `url` from **Update Customer Page** |

> | `conditions.customer_domain` | No   | `object`  | Rule that matches on domain of the url above |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `conditions.customer_domain` | No   | `object`  | The condition that matches on the domain of the `customer_url`. |
```

Reviewer: Please, replace 'Rule' with 'The condition' in other places

| `conditions.customer_*.values` | No | `[]match_object`_*_ | Positive match, may not be used together with `exclude_values` |
| `conditions.customer_*.exclude_values` | No | `[]match_object` | Negative match |

> | `conditions.geolocation` | No   | `object`  | Rule that matches on customer geolocation |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `conditions.geolocation` | No   | `object`  | Rule that matches on the customer's geolocation |
```

> | `conditions.geolocation.values` | Yes | `[]geolocation_object`__**__ | array of objects; matches when at least one subcondition matches |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `conditions.geolocation.values` | Yes | `[]geolocation_object`__**__ | An array of objects; matches when at least one subcondition matches. |
```

| `description`   | No           | `string`  | Description of the rule  |

__*__ `<match_object>` structure:

| Parameter   | Required | Data type | Notes |
| ----------- | -------- | --------- | ----- |

> | `value`     | Yes      | `string`  | value to match |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `value`     | Yes      | `string`  | A value to match |
```

> | `exact_match` | No     | `bool`    | if set to `false` a `match_object.value` will be matched as substring of customer url or domain |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `exact_match` | No     | `bool`    | If set to `false`, a `match_object.value` will be matched as a substring of the customer URL or domain. |
```

> __**__ `geolocation_object` structure.  All of the specified fields must match in order for condition to be fullfilled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__**__ the `geolocation_object` structure. The condition is fulfilled only when all of the specified fields match:
```

          0
        ]
      },
      "conditions": {
        "customer_geolocation": {
          "values": [
            {
              "country": "United States",
              "country_code": "US"
            }
          ]
        },
        "customer_url": {
          "values": [
            {
              "value": "livechatinc.com",
              "exact_match": false
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

</CodeResponse>

</Code>

</Section>

<Section>

<Text>

### Remove auto access

Removes an existing `auto access` data structure specified by its ID.

#### Specifics

|                |                                                                                  |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Method URL     | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/remove_auto_access`       |
| Required scopes| `access_rules:rw`                                                                |

| Parameter              | Required     | Data type | Notes                         |
| ---------------------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------------------- |

> | `id`                   | Yes          | `string`  | auto access rules ID          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id`                   | Yes          | `string`  | Auto access ID          |
```

#### Response

No response payload (`200 OK`).

</Text>

<Code>

<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>

```shell
curl -X POST \

>   https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/remove_auto_access_rules \

Reviewer 4: remove_auto_access

#### Specifics

|                |                                                                               |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Method URL     | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/add_auto_access_rules` |
| Required scopes| `access_rules:rw`                                                             |

| Parameter      | Required     | Data type | Notes                         |
| -------------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------------------- |
| `access`__*__  | Yes          | `object`  | Destination access            |
| `rules`__**__  | Yes          | `object`  | Rules to check for scope auto |
| `description`  | No           | `string`  | Auto chat scopes description  |

__*__ `access` object:
    * `groups`: `[1, 2]`

__**__ `rules` possible rules:
  * `customer_url.<string_filter_type>` - matches on `customer_page.url` from **Login** or `url` from **Update Customer Page**
    * `<string_filter_type>` possible values (only one is allowed for single customer_url):
      * `values` (array of `match_object`)
      * `exclude_values` (array of `match_object`)

>     * `<match_object>` structure:

Reviewer 5: `<match_object>` is repeated multiple times here, maybe worth extracting its structure to a separate top-level description (a sibling of `access` & `rules`)? It would make this section shorter and thus easier to grok

        "customer_geolocation": {
          "values": [{
              "country": "United States",
              "country_code": "US"
            }
        }]
      }
    }'
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
  "auto_access_rules_id": "pqi8oasdjahuakndw9nsad9na"
}
```

</CodeResponse>

</Code>

</Section>

<Section>

<Text>

### Get auto access rules config

#### Specifics

|                |                                                                                      |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Method URL     | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/get_auto_access_rules_config` |
| Required scopes| `access_rules:ro`                                                                    |

</Text>

<Code>

<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>

```shell
curl -X POST \
  https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/configuration/action/get_auto_access_rules_config \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{}'
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
     [
        {
            "id": "1faad6f5f1d6e8fdf27e8af9839783b7",

>             "description": "Chats from Facebook or Twitter",

Reviewer 6: This is not good example as we can not match chat_properties `anymore`

            "access": {
                "groups": [
                    0
                ]
            },
            "rules": {
                "chat_properties": {
                    "facebook": {
                        "page_id": {
                            "values": [
                                "63121487121"
                            ]
                        }
                    },
                    "source": {
                        "type": {
                            "values": [
                                "facebook",
                                "twitter"

>                             ]

Reviewer 7: I think chat_properties should be removed from auto access rules type based on documentation

Reviewer 6: yes, `chat_properties` are no longer supported and there are no occurrences for that in DBs on any env.
